#+TITLE:Trees in cool climate cities may increase atmospheric carbon by altering building energy use
#+AUTHOR: Tedward Erker^*, Philip A. Townsend
#+email: erker@wisc.edu
#+PROPERTY: header-args:R :session *R* :cache no :results output :exports both :tangle yes :eval yes
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil date:t
#+LATEX_HEADER: \usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
#+LATEX_HEADER: \usepackage{natbib}
#+LATEX_HEADER: \usepackage{chemformula}
#+LaTeX_HEADER: \RequirePackage{lineno} \def\linenumberfont{\normalfont\small\tt}
#+latex_header: \hypersetup{colorlinks=true,linkcolor=black, citecolor=black, urlcolor=black}
#+latex_header: \usepackage{setspace} \doublespacing
#+LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS: [12pt]
------------
#+begin_src emacs-lisp :exports none
(setq org-latex-caption-above nil)
#+end_src

#+RESULTS:
\setrunninglinenumbers \modulolinenumbers[1] \linenumbers

* Affliations
Department of Forest and Wildlife Ecology \\
University of Wisconsin-Madison \\
226 Russell Labs \\
1630 Linden Drive \\
Madison, WI 53706-1598. USA.

* Abstract

Urban trees are a critical part of the "green infrastructure" intended
to make our growing cities more sustainable in an era of climate
change.  The potential for urban trees to modify microclimates and
thereby reduce building energy use and the associated carbon emissions
is a commonly cited ecosystem service used to justify million tree
planting campaigns across the US.  However, what we know of this
ecosystem service comes primarily from unvalidated simulation studies.

Using the first dataset of actual heating and cooling energy use
combined with tree cover data, we show that that contrary to the
predictions of the most commonly used simulations, trees in a cool
climate city increase carbon emissions from residential building
energy use. This is driven primarily by near east (< 20m from
building) tree cover. Further analysis of urban areas in the US shows
that this is likely the case in cool climates throughout the country,
encompassing approximately 39% of the US population and 62% of its
area (56%, excluding Alaska). This work adds geographic nuance to our
understanding of how urban shade trees affect the carbon budget, and
it could have major implications for tree planting programs in cool
climates.

\pagebreak

* Introduction

Two global trends of the 21st century, climate change and increasing
urbanization, have deepened our need to make cities more sustainable.
Urban trees are often championed as a means to that end. Several large
cities in the U.S. have recently committed to large tree planting
programs (see Million Trees New York City and Million Trees Los
Angeles). Spending hundreds of millions of dollars, these cities hope
that the environmental benefits, particularly the reduction in
building energy use and the associated carbon (*C*) emissions from
power plants, will outweigh the cost citep:young_2011.

A single urban tree has a much stronger impact on the carbon cycle
than a non-urban counterpart because an urban tree induces or reduces
more C emitting human behaviors than a rural one does.  Both trees
sequester C from the atmosphere, but the urban tree requires more
management (planting, watering, pruning, removal, chipping) and, by
modifying the microclimate, it can alter building energy use and the
associated C emissions (*ACE*) from power plants.

Trees primarily alter microclimates by 1) shading, 2) reducing wind
speed, and 3) cooling via transpiration.  With the exception of
transpirative cooling, which is mostly active in summer, these effects
can both increase or decrease ACE.  Shading to the west of buildings
greatly reduces summer cooling loads, but shading to the south of
buildings, even by deciduous trees, may increase winter heating loads
citep:heisler_86.  Reduced wind speeds have complex effects. They: 1)
decrease convective heat loss, which is beneficial for winter heating
but detrimental for summer cooling, 2) decrease air infiltration which
decreases both heating and cooling energy use, and 3) decrease natural
ventilation, increasing the need for mechanical cooling
citep:huang_e_1990.  The strength of the effect of a tree on ACE
attenuates with distance to a building.  Trees far from a house have
little affect on ACE via shading and wind reduction, but they likely
affect ACE via evapotranspiration and the associated reduction in
temperature citep:ziter_e_2019.

Whether the net effect of trees is to increase or decrease ACE depends
on the balance of beneficial and detrimental effects on heating and
cooling energy use. This is largely mediated by the location of tree
cover, the prevailing climate (e.g. number of heating- and cooling-
degree days), building characteristics (orientation, insulation, size
and surface area, etc.), occupant behavior and the C content of a kWh,
which varies depending on the fuel mix in the electrical grid.

Our current understanding of how trees affect building energy use and
ACE suggests that there are contexts in which trees may increase ACE.
But despite this potentially detrimental effect of trees, it is often
not mentioned in the literature (a gray literature exception is
cite:nowak_etal_2010).  In an extensive review of the effect of the
urban forest on CO_2 emissions, cite:weissert_etal_2014 did not
consider that trees could increase ACE.  In a paper critical of many
ecosystem services provided by trees, cite:pataki_etal_2011
nevertheless state that trees reduce energy use and ACE.  Our work
here builds on past simulation studies and uses empirical energy use
data from thousands of houses in a city to demonstrate that trees may
actually increase ACE in cool climate cities.

* Previous research

Decades worth of research primarily by two research groups, the US
Forest Service ([[https://www.fs.fed.us/psw/topics/urban_forestry/][USFS]]) and the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab Heat Island
Group ([[https://heatisland.lbl.gov/][LBNL]]), have reported that, on average, trees reduce C
emissions.  In 2002, citeauthor:akbari_2002 published a paper
summarizing their group's findings: "Shade trees reduce building
energy use and CO_2 emissions from power plants".  In 1999,
citeauthor:mcpherson_simpson_99 wrote a technical report that was the
basis of the [[https://www.itreetools.org/][iTree software]], which has been used by thousands of
communities around the U.S. to estimate ACE avoided.  Their
methodology was recently applied to estimate the effects of trees on
ACE for the entire conterminous US citep:nowak_e_2017.  Despite the
number of publications on the topic, the length of time we have been
researching the matter, and the many large cities with massive tree
planting initiatives, our uncertainty about the effects of trees on
building energy use is actually quite high
citep:pataki_e_06,mcpherson_simpson_99.  The effect of trees on nearby
building energy use is difficult and expensive to measure directly and
complex to model.

Direct measures of the effect of trees on building energy use are
rare, focused on cooling energy use, and limited in their ability to
be extrapolated.  To our knowledge, there are the only 5 studies that
test the effect of trees on measured building energy use data
citep:akbari_e_1997,donovan_Butry_2009,dewalle_e_1983,parker_1983,mcpherson_e_1989.
Only two of these studies were of actual houses (not mobile homes nor
models) and both are from Sacramento, CA and did not measure heating
energy use citep:akbari_e_1997,donovan_Butry_2009.  Only one of the
studies was from a cool, heating dominated climate (typical of much of
the US) and it studied a single mobile home in a forest citep:dewalle_e_1983.

Given the challenges inherent in collecting direct measurements,
simulation studies are useful attempts to extend our understanding of
how trees affect building energy use and ACE.  But these simulations
necessarily contain simplifications and generalizations which are
sometimes unrealistic or untestable due to lack of data.

The work from LBNL assumes: millions more trees are planted in an
urban area (extremely ambitious); trees are planted to the west and
south of buildings (ideal placement for reducing cooling loads); and
winter tree canopy transmissivity is 0.9 (0.7 is more realistic,
citealp:heisler_86). In later work, microclimate wind effects are
ignored citep:akbari_konopacki_2005, and in earlier work, they use a
three parameter equation fit to four data points to estimate how wind
speed is reduced by canopy cover
citep:heisler_1990,huang_e_1990. Finally, the LBNL work uses potential
evapotranspiration to predict cooling, and their model uses parameters
derived from crops.  Given these assumptions, the authors note that
their work provides an upper boundary for the indirect effect of trees
citep:akbari_konopacki_2005,huang_e_1987.

USFS studies assume: lookup tables for the effect of tree shade on
building energy use are reliable (even though they may deviate from
more detailed simulations by up to 10%, citealp:simpson_2002); wind
reduction only affects heating use in the winter, even though we know
cooling use is also affected; and they also use an overfit summertime
leaf-on equation from cite:heisler_1990. Evergreen trees are modeled
as if they are windbreaks for rural farmhouses in winter, even in suburban
neighborhoods where other buildings and trees already block
significant winds; and estimated evapotranspirative cooling is optimistically
high, higher even than the self declared upper limit of
cite:huang_e_1987 citep:mcpherson_simpson_99.

The consequence of these assumptions is that simulations may
overestimate the energy reducing power of trees.  What little
validation we have has confirmed the general effects of trees on
energy use that we expect in hot climates, but also highlight the
imprecision of simulations as well as occasional discrepancies from
empirical observations. Simulations of cite:akbari_e_1997 were off by
2-fold, though trees were about twice as beneficial as predicted for
the two houses studied. cite:donovan_Butry_2009 found trees to the
north actually increasing electricity use, unlike the predictions of
cite:mcpherson_simpson_99.

Despite providing estimates for the effects of trees on building
energy use and ACE for anywhere in the country
citep:akbari_konopacki_2005 and the entire country citep:nowak_e_2017,
we still have no empirical validation of the effect of urban trees in
a cool climate.  More than 3 out of every 4 people in the U.S. live in
places with more heating degree days than cooling degree days, and
Americans use much more energy for heating than for cooling
citep:USEIA_2009. To properly assess simulations of the role of urban
trees in the C budget, comprehensive analyses are needed to test the
relationship between tree location and energy usage (both heating and
cooling).  Our work in Madison, WI was the first to begin address this
need. In 2016, we downloaded average annual energy use data for
approximately 32 thousand single family residential homes and built a
regression model between the amount of tree cover near each house and
the C produced from electricity and natural gas use, controlling for
other factors such as building characteristics.

#+name:soltice_shadow_building
#+attr_latex: :height 8in
#+caption: Simulated shadows of trees on a house at the latitude of Madison, WI.  In the summer, trees to the west of buildings provide the most effective shade since solar angles are lower and cooling demand highest in the afternoon.  In winter, even deciduous trees can significantly reduce solar gain.
[[file:figs/soltice_shadow_building.png]]

* Results
** Effect of trees on building associated C emissions
Trees increased C emissions associated with residential building
energy use (*ACE*) in Madison, WI.  This effect was the result of a
trade-off between their electricity (cooling) saving and gas (heating)
penalty.  We estimated that 100m^2 of tree cover within 20m of a house
increased ACE from gas use by 0.77% (95% CI: 0.68%, 0.85%), and
decreased ACE from electricity use by 0.21% (95% CI: 0.34%,
0.080%). Our model for net ACE estimated that 100m^2 of tree cover
increased ACE by 0.17% (95% CI: .09%, .27%).

The magnitude and direction of the effect depended on tree location
relative to the building. Figure [[fig:tree_effect]] shows the percent
change in the ACE from 100m^2 of tree cover.  Trees reduced ACE from
electricity for all near regions except the east.  Trees increased ACE
from gas for all regions, especially in the near south and east.  For
net ACE, tree cover in the near east was the most important, having
the only estimate with a 95% CI that excluded 0.

#+name: fig:tree_effect
#+caption: The percent effect of 100m^2 tree cover in different locations on C emissions from residential building energy use. n = 25095, bars indicate standard errors.
[[file:../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png]]

** Effect of existing tree cover on a typical house
The median house in our sample was responsible for 1084 and 954 kg C
annual emissions due to electricity use and gas use, respectively.
Multiplying the median tree cover in each region (see table
[[tab:tree_cover_summary]])  by its coefficient we
estimated the effects of typical tree cover on a typical house in
Madison: electricity C emissions were reduced by 33.8 kg C / yr (95%
CI: 14.7, 52.7), but gas C emissions were increased by 102.3 kg C / year
(95% CI: 92.9, 111.8).  Our combined model estimated the net effect of
existing tree cover is to increase C emissions by about 62 kg C/year
(95% CI: 38.7, 85.3) for a typical house.  This is 2.5% of the median
house's annual ACE.

#+name: tab:tree_cover_summary
#+caption: Summary statistics for amount of tree cover (m^2) in each region around houses in Madison, WI. 
| Region     | min | mean | median |  max |
|------------+-----+------+--------+------|
| near west  |   0 |  193 |    179 |  742 |
| near south |   0 |  372 |    363 | 1443 |
| near north |   0 |  357 |    345 | 1197 |
| near east  |   0 |  193 |    179 |  764 |
| far west   |   0 |  974 |    960 | 2640 |
| far south  |   0 | 1676 |   1653 | 4376 |
| far north  |   0 | 1673 |   1661 | 4602 |
| far east   |   0 |  967 |    955 | 2677 |

While tree cover in far regions had smaller per unit area effects than
in near regions, there was more tree cover in farther regions, so when
median tree cover was multiplied by the smaller coefficients some of
the farther regions had larger typical effects than near ones (figure
[[fig:median_tree_effect]]).  Typical tree cover in the far east and far
west regions had a greater estimated effect than cover in the near
north and near west.
#+name: fig:median_tree_effect
#+caption: Effect of typical tree cover on a typical building's C emissions.
[[file:../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png]]
** Comparing C emissions from energy use due to trees to C stored and sequestered.
For comparison, consider a green ash tree with a crown area of 100m^2.
This tree would store approximately 1360 kg C in above ground biomass
and it could sequester around 34 kg C / year.  That same tree in the
near east region of a typical house in Madison was estimated to
increase C emissions by 9.8 kg C/yr (95% CI: 6.7, 12.9).  In the near
west the estimated effect was 1.0 kg C/yr (95% CI: -2.1, 4.1).
Therefore, the transfer of carbon from atmosphere to the biosphere
(sequestration) is an order of magnitude larger than the transfer from
the lithosphere to atmosphere (emissions).

* Discussion
** Interpreting Tree Effects

In the cool climate city of Madison with 7283 heating degree days, 597
cooling degree days and a electricity emission factor of 0.206 kg C /
kwh, the relationship of trees with ACE was clear: trees increased ACE
from gas use more than they decreased ACE from electricity use,
resulting in a net increase in ACE.

According to past studies, if shade were the only effect on
ACE (winter wind speed reduction was not included) trees in cool
climate cities would cause an increase in ACE.  Since we found an
increase in ACE with increased tree cover this suggests that
shading was the most important process and that whatever gas savings
trees may have provided in winter by reducing wind speeds was swamped
by the penalty of reduced solar radiation.

By separating tree cover into different locations, it appeared that
for the most regions, the beneficial effects of trees on electricity
ACE /mostly/ canceled out the detrimental effects of trees on gas ACE,
with the exception of the near east.  This suggests that trees to the
east may have been responsible for most of the net increase in
ACE. Eastern trees did not provide electricity savipngs since houses
require less cooling in the morning hours, but still caused an
increased gas use in winter.  This agrees with cite:donovan_Butry_2009
who also found trees to the east had no effect on electricity use.

As expected, trees to the near south had a strong effect on
electricity savings, but they also had a stronger gas penalty.  Trees
in the near west and near north had the weakest gas penalty, which may
have been due to the savings they provided by reducing wind
speed. Somewhat surprising was the weakness of the estimated
electricity savings of trees in the near west, which all simulations
have predicted has the strongest effect.  Also surprising was that
trees to the north are associated with an increase in gas use,
something no other study has predicted.  Since tree cover is measured
north of each building's centroid, it could be that there is still
some shading from trees on the northern roof.  It is also possible
that there could be some transpirative cooling occuring during the
early spring and late fall when trees have their leaves and it is
still the heating season in Madison.  

The inability to discern causation and identify clear mechanisms is
one of the limitations of this observational study.  While the overall
association between tree cover and ACE is clear, uncertainty increases
when distance and direction of tree cover are considered.  Where our
coefficients disagree with past studies, they should be considered
cautiously.

** Comparing to past work

Our findings agreed with some though not all of the past simulation
studies, and the modeling of wind is the main cause of
discrepancies. cite:thayer_maeda_1985 modeled the shading effects of
south trees on building energy use and reported that trees increased
emissions in cities with more heating degree days than cooling degree
days.  cite:mcpherson_e_1988 investigated the shading and wind effects
on building energy use in 4 cities, one of which was Madison, WI.
Converting their results into C, trees in Madison caused a small
increase in emissions, though their method for modeling wind was later
criticized and abandoned citep:simpson_mcpherson_1998.
cite:akbari_konopacki_2005 developed a method to predict the effect of
a tree planting program and increasing roof albedo for any city in the
U.S. Figure [[fig:akbari_konopacki_2005]] illustrates an application of
their method to every census tract in the conterminous US for
pre-1980s houses using updated energy emission factors.  They identify
places where trees increase ACE and others where trees decrease ACE,
however they are most often cited for the average effect found: "Shade
trees reduce building energy use and CO_2 emissions from power
plants", the title of from Akbari's 2002 paper.  Clearly climate
largely drives the relationship between ACE and trees at large scales,
but there is significant regional variation due to differences in
electricity C emission factors.  Trees are more beneficial in places
with "dirtier" (more C per kWh) electricity and less beneficial in
places with "cleaner" (less C per kWh) electricity.  For example,
despite its cool climate, trees in Chicago reduce ACE because the
electricity has more C per kWh and therefore the electricity reduction
benefit of trees leads to a greater reduction in C than in places with
cleaner electricity.

About 40% of the US population live in areas where the
cite:akbari_konopacki_2005 model predicts that trees increase C
emissions.  While their methods were limited as mentioned above, and
they modeled theoretical, not existing, tree cover, their work
suggests that many large cities especially in New England, the
Northwest, the Mountains and the Upper Midwest would need to carefully
consider the C implications of large tree planting programs.

#+name: fig:akbari_konopacki_2005
#+caption: Each census tract in the conterminous US shaded by magnitude of building C emissions effect of trees planted to west and south of a pre-1980's home and increasing roof albedo.  Differences in regional emission factors (C/kWh) cause deviations from climate trend.  New England has especially high ACE for the climate because their electricity is cleaner (low C/kWh).  About 40% of Americans live in places where trees increase ACE. Model based on cite:akbari_konopacki_2005.
[[file:../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png]]

Our empirical findings disagree with those simulation studies that
model the relationship between tree cover and wind speed following
cite:heisler_1990 and cite:mcpherson_simpson_99. When the beneficial
effects of wind are excluded for models of several cool climate
cities: Toronto citep:akbari_taha_1992, Chicago
citep:jo_mcpherson_2001, Minneapolis, Sacramento, and Washington
citep:huang_e_1990, trees either have no effect or increase energy use
and ACE, which agrees with our general findings.  The iTree model
which uses the methods of cite:mcpherson_simpson_99 predicts that the
shading effects of a large deciduous tree in the Northern Tier, North
Central, Mountains, Pacific Northwest, and California Coast regions
increases ACE of a 1950-1980 vintage house by 0.136 to 9.52 kg,
depending on the region.  This is comparable to our results.  However,
the wind effect in the iTree model of that same tree on the same house
decreases heating ACE by 1.23 to 66.14 kg depending on the region and
existing canopy: an order of magnitude greater savings for gas ACE
from wind reduction than the penalty from shading.  Given that our
model coefficients show that trees increases ACE, it suggests that
shading is a more important process than wind speed reduction.  In
other words, our results agree with the shading but not wind reduction
effects proposed by others, and therefore may suggest that shading is
being more accurately modeled than wind in existing simulations.
cite:mcpherson_simpson_99 note that the uncertainty in their methods
was high, and, given our contradictory findings, it is clear that more
data and improved models are needed to better parameterize the complex
and uncertain relationship between tree cover, wind, and building
energy use.

** Considering the larger C cycle

The effect on ACE of a tree with a 100 m^2 canopy area is an order of
magnitude smaller than that tree's C sequestration.  However, it is
important to make the distinction between different pools of C.
Discounting increased ACE as irrelevant because C sequestration more
than compensates, fails to recognize that ACE is an input of
fossilized C while sequestration is a temporary transfer of C from the
atmosphere to biosphere.  In the short term, sequestration may assist
in climate change mitigation, but unless forested land is permanently
expanded or wood products are forever prevented from decay, in the
long run (hundreds of years) sequestration by trees can never offset
fossil C emissions.  Indeed this same conclusion was made for
fossilized C emissions due to tree management citep:nowak_e_02.  The
avoided ACE from trees has been estimated to more than offset these
management emissions in a life-cycle analysis of the Million Trees Los
Angeles program citep:mcpherson_kendall_2014.  However, our results
suggest that for cool climate communities, shade trees actually
increase ACE and, especially when combined with the C emissions from
management, are atmospheric C sources in the long term.

*** COMMENT cite:nowak_etal_2010 failed to make this distinction.

** Trees relative to other factors that affect ACE and the ACE effect of trees relative to other ecosystem services/disservices.

Considering all of the factors that determine building energy use and
ACE, trees play a very minor role, which we estimated to be about 2.5%
of the ACE of a median house.  As buildings become better built and
insulated the effect of trees on ACE will decrease.  Far greater ACE
savings are possible with improved construction and savvy occupant
behavior. However, the effect of trees on energy use and ACE is one of
the most often cited ecosystem services of trees citep:roy_etal_2012,
and evidence that ACE is increased by trees highlights the large
uncertainty in software used by thousands of communities to justify
urban forest costs.

Still, effects on ACE are just one of the ecosystem effects that trees
have in cities.  Trees may also improve air quality, reduce stormwater
runoff, reduce noise, and provide wildlife habitat.  The aesthetic
value of trees is often far greater than the value of the ecosystem
services or disservices provided citep:mcpherson_e_05.  Even after
publishing that trees reduced ACE on average, cite:akbari_2002 noted
that this benefit alone may not justify the cost of tree planting.
Our opposing results have a similar caveat: even after finding the
detrimental impacts of trees on ACE in cool climates, management
decisions need to consider these results as just one of the many
benefits and costs of trees.  Our results suggest that trees planted
on all but the near east side of a house are net neutral in terms of
ACE, so that the other benefits of tree planting, such as aesthetics,
could be accomplished in cool climates through careful selection of
planting locations.

** Future work

Using actual energy use data from over 25,000 houses, we provide a
much needed complement to simulation models of tree effects on ACE in
cool climates.  However, there is need for continuing work to address
remaining shortcomings.  The observational nature of our data is
strengthed by the size of the dataset, but ultimately causal inference
depends on our physical knowledge of how trees alter building energy
use.  Not all coefficients in our model agree with our existing
physical understanding of how trees affect building energy use.  For
example, it is surprising that trees to the near west have such a weak
effect on electricity use and that trees to the north increase gas
use.  While the overall association between greater tree cover and
greater ACE in Madison is clear from our work, how that relationship
changes with distance and direction is less clear.  Our work is an
important complement to simulation studies and highlights the need for
more experimental studies especially in cool climate cities.

Our data on tree cover was also limited by a lack of information about
tree height, which means we could not address how adjusting the size
of trees planted in an urban area affects ACE. Incorporating lidar
could provide more accurate estimates of tree shading and wind
reduction.  Furthermore, the scale of the effects that our study could
detect is much smaller than the city-wide effects many simulation
studies address.  Ultimately, this work is a sample of one year from
one city with the accompanying limitations.  The warm December during
the sampling period may mean the effect of trees is even more
detrimental than we report, but more years are needed to say.  The
location of Madison near the boundary that cite:akbari_konopacki_2005
identified between trees being a sink and a source is useful, but more
cities are needed to empirically determine this boundary.

Our work presents more evidence for a known, but too often overlooked,
result in urban ecology.  Many studies only report that trees reduce
ACE citep:pataki_etal_2011,weissert_etal_2014. While this may be true
in most of the US, and the potential ACE reduction is larger than the
potential ACE increase, it ignores geographic variation
citep:akbari_konopacki_2005.  In many ways it is not surprising, given
the climatic diversity across the country, that the effects of trees
on ACE might also vary and that our prescriptions for how to plant
trees to minimize ACE could be different between Los Angeles and New
York City.  Our study is only the first study to use a large number of
both gas and electric energy use observations, and the first study of
its kind in a cool climate.  Much more work with observed energy use
is needed to identify where trees switch from increasing to decreasing
ACE.

* Conclusion
Using observed energy use data, we have shown that trees near
residential houses in Madison, WI are associated with increased energy
use and ACE. Near east tree cover appears to have the strongest net
relationship.  Extending past simulation studies, we show that this is
likely the case for a large area of the US and cool climate regions
generally.  The magnitude and direction of the association is
dependent on tree location relative to buildings, climate, building
characteristics, occupant behavior, and the C content of electricity.
Disagreements between our results and past work may be due to how wind
effects are modeled and much more work is needed to better understand
this process.  While we do not invalidate past simulation studies of
how trees affect building energy use and ACE, our empirical results
raise questions about simulation assumptions and highlight the need
for more research.  We add critical geographic nuance to research that
could have major implications for tree planting programs in cool
climates.

* Methods
** Building Energy Use
In April 2016, we obtained the annual energy use summary table (April
2015 - April 2016) from Madison Gas and Electric's publicly available
website for approximately 32 thousand single family residential houses
in Madison, WI.  This included average monthly gas and electricity
use.  This period exhibited a much warmer than average December (about
6º C) and had low snowfall.  We removed from our sample outliers that
used fewer than 120 therms (which is less than the 0.5% quantile) or
fewer than 240 kWh (which is less than the 0.05% quantile) annually.
We included only buildings that used natural gas for heating and had
central air conditioning.  Our final sample size used to build models
was 25095.

** Carbon Emissions

We converted energy use to C emissions using emission factors
published by the US EPA's Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated
Database, eGRID citep:eGRID.  100% of the carbon in natural gas is
oxidized to CO_2 when burned for heating. The carbon coefficient for
natural gas is 1.446 kg C / therm citep:epa_a2_2017.  For electricity,
Madison, WI is a part of the Midwest Reliability Organization East
(MROE) region of the North American electric grid.  The estimated
carbon coefficient for power generated in this region is 0.2063698 kg
C/kWh citep:eGRID. We had originally used emission factor for MROE
from 2012 (.1567988 kg C / kWh) and by switching to the updated and
higher 2016 emission factor (0.2063698 kg C/kWh), the overall
detrimental effects of trees on ACE was diminished from about 3.4% to
2.5%.

** Building Characteristics

Energy use is strongly determined by building characteristics.  For
every address in the city, the City of Madison releases the assessor's
property information, which includes information on building age,
size, materials, type of heating and cooling, as well as which schools
serve the address.  We removed any houses that had bad or missing
data.  Many of the covariates, such as size and price, were strongly
correlated.  Given that our primary interest was how tree cover
affected building energy use, not how building characteristics affect
building energy use, we reduced the dimensionality of building
characteristics using principal components analysis.  This reduced the
number of building covariates from 20 (Lot area, length of water
frontage, year built, number of stories, number of bedrooms, number of
bathrooms (full and half), number of fireplaces, living area on each
floor, finished attic area, finished basement area, total basement
area, crawl space area, year roof was replaced, number of stalls in
each garage, land value, improvement value) to 5 orthogonal vectors,
accounting for 55% of the variance.

** Tree Canopy
For tree cover we used a 1m resolution landcover map derived from 2013
National Agriculture Inventory Program (NAIP) visible and
near-infrared digital aerial imagery with an accuracy of 85%
citep:erker_e_2018.  Using building footprints from the Dane county,
for each house for which we had energy use data, we divided the space
around it into 8 regions defined by 2 buffers around the house of
distance 20 m and 60m and 4 rays from the building's centroid.  Tree
cover closer than 20m was considered near, tree cover farther than 20m
and closer than 60m was considered far. These buffers were subdivided
into north, west, south, and east regions by rays of angles 57, 123,
237, 303 degrees from north.  These angles are within 1 degree of the
azimuth angle of sunrise and sunset at the two solstices.  This
defines the south region as the region that is exposed to direct
sunlight year-round, and the north region as the region that is never
exposed to direct sunlight (this relationship is approximate and
complicated by individual building geometry).  Within each of the
eight regions we summed the area covered by trees, and then use the
tree cover in each region as predictors in our models.

We tested buffers of different widths (every 3m from 3m to 60m), but
found because of the observational nature of our data that we needed
to aggregate regions to remove multicollinearity that caused
unstable coefficient estimates.  Using a distance of 18, 21, or 24 m
instead of 20m to separate "near" from "far" cover only slightly
changed coefficient estimates.  By fitting a model with all tree cover
close to a house aggregated into one variable and then a model with
the tree cover separated into 8 variables defined by distance and
direction we tested the overall association of ACE with tree cover and
then tested for specific associations by distance and direction.

** Building Cover

Nearby buildings likely also affect the energy use of a building.  To
test this hypothesis we calculated the area of buildings in each of
the eight regions around every building and included these as
covariates in our modeling.  We used building footprints from Dane
County which consists of structures the size of a single car garage or
larger. The horizontal accuracy is +/- 6.6 feet for well-defined
points, at a ninety percent confidence level. 

*** COMMENT accuracy information
https://lio.countyofdane.com/metadata/BuildingFootprints2005_faq.htm

** Modeling

We fit linear models where the response was log transformed annual ACE
for gas use, for electricity use, or for gas and electricity combined
(net).  Because a separate model was built to explain net C emissions,
coefficient estimates for the net model were not precisely the sum of
the coefficients from the electricity and gas models. ACE was log
transformed to meet assumptions of normality and diagnostic plots were
assessed to check other model assumptions and potential sensitivity to
influential observations.  Our first models aggregated all tree cover
near buildings into one variable, and subsequent models separated tree
cover based on direction and distance into eight variables.  In
addition to tree cover, variables in our model were: 5 principal
components of building characteristics, building cover in each of the
8 regions, and a random effect for elementary school which might
capture neighborhood characteristics such as culture.  We used AIC as
a variable selection criterion and in our final models only used the
first 5 building characteristics principal components and we dropped
all the building cover covariates.  Estimates for the coefficients of
tree cover were not sensitive to the inclusion or removal of these
covariates, but model fit improved.  Although some tree cover
covariates increased AIC, we kept all tree cover covariates in the
model because we wanted estimates of their effects, however uncertain
they might be.  We also fit models We fit models using the R package
lme4 citep:bates_e_2015.

** Interpreting coefficients
To improve interpretability of coefficients, we back transformed them
to the original scale and expressed the multiplicative effects as a
percentage citep:gelman_hill_2007.  We then multiplied this percent
change by the median ACE (a better estimator of the central tendency
because of the right skew in our data) to estimate the typical effect
in absolute C terms.  To get typical effects of tree cover, we
multiplied median tree cover in each region by its coefficient
estimate and back transformed to the original scale.

** Estimating C storage and sequestration of a green ash with 100m^2 canopy
To estimate C storage and sequestration by a single green ash tree with a
 canopy cover of 100m^2, we used allometric equations to estimate that
 tree's diameter at breast height (DBH) and mass and then, assuming an
 annual DBH growth of 0.61 cm, predicted the change in mass to get C
 sequestration cite:nowak_crane_2002,mcpherson_e_2016.

** Extending Analyses from Published Literature

To compare our work to past simulation studies we converted results
that were in Therms or kWh to kg C.  We did this for
cite:thayer_maeda_1985, cite:mcpherson_e_1988, and cite:huang_e_1990
using updated emission factors corresponding to each study city's
eGrid subregion citep:eGRID.  To extend cite:akbari_konopacki_2005, we
joined climate data (heating and cooling degree days) from the nearest
NOAA weather station to census tract centroids
cite:tract_centroids,arguez_e_2012.  It was from this join of climate
and census data that we determined that 77% of the U.S. population
lives in places with more heating than cooling degree days. Then for
each census tract we predicted the effect of trees and increasing roof
albedo on the energy use of a pre-1980's building with gas heating
following their table that bins houses according to heating
degree-days and using emission factors corresponding to the eGrid
subregion containing the census tract centroid. Separating out the
indirect effects of trees from the indirect effects of increasing roof
albedo was not possible because these were not modeled
separately. However, the general trend would be similar, but with a
decreased electricity savings and a decreased heating penalty.
cite:akbari_konopacki_2005 found the effect of tree shade to be
stronger than the indirect effects of increased roof albedo and
transpirative cooling.


** Code

All of the code and data for these analyses are present on
Github (https://github.com/TedwardErker/energy).  Code is provisional
pending review.

* bibliography                                                       :ignore:
bibliography:references.bib
bibliographystyle:apa

* Acknowledgments
Steve Carpenter, Bret Larget and the Fall 2017 Statistical Consulting
Class at UW-Madison for comments on early drafts; Madison Gas and
Electric; Chris Kucharik; Jun Zhu; NASA Fellowship Award NNX15AP02H,
Wisconsin DNR Contract 37000-0000002995

* COMMENT diff

#+BEGIN_SRC sh
cd ~/git/energy/papers/
latexdiff -t CFONT energy_paper_firstSubmission.tex energy_paper.tex > paper_diff.tex
pdflatex -interaction nonstopmode paper_diff.tex
bibtex paper_diff.aux
pdflatex -interaction nonstopmode paper_diff.tex
pdflatex -interaction nonstopmode paper_diff.tex
#+END_SRC

#+RESULTS:
| This                                                                            | is                                                                       | pdfTeX,                                             | Version                            | 3.14159265-2.6-1.40.17            | (TeX       | Live                                    | 2016)       | (preloaded   | format=pdflatex)   |                   |                            |
| restricted                                                                      | \write18                                                                 | enabled.                                            |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| entering                                                                        | extended                                                                 | mode                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.tex                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| LaTeX2e                                                                         | <2016/03/31>                                                             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Babel                                                                           | <3.9r>                                                                   | and                                                 | hyphenation                        | patterns                          | for        | 83                                      | language(s) | loaded.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/article.cls                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Document                                                                        | Class:                                                                   | article                                             | 2014/09/29                         | v1.4h                             | Standard   | LaTeX                                   | document    | class        |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/size12.clo))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/inputenc.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/utf8.def                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.dfu)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ot1enc.dfu)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/omsenc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/fontenc.sty                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.def))                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphicx.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/keyval.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphics.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/trig.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/graphics.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pdftex-def/pdftex.def             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/infwarerr.sty)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ltxcmds.sty))))        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grffile.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifpdf.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ifxetex/ifxetex.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/kvoptions.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/kvsetkeys.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/etexcmds.sty           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifluatex.sty))))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/pdftexcmds.sty))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/tools/longtable.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/wrapfig/wrapfig.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/rotating/rotating.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ifthen.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ulem/ulem.sty)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsmath.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| For                                                                             | additional                                                               | information                                         | on                                 | amsmath,                          | use        | the                                     | `?'         | option.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amstext.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsgen.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsbsy.sty)               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsopn.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/textcomp.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.def                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amssymb.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amsfonts.sty))           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/capt-of/capt-of.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hyperref.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-hyperref.sty    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-generic.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/auxhook.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/pd1enc.def)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/hyperref.cfg)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/url/url.sty))                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Message:                                            | Driver                             | (autodetected):                   | hpdftex.   |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hpdftex.def              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/rerunfilecheck.sty))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/geometry/geometry.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/natbib/natbib.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/chemformula/chemformula.sty       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3.sty                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3-code.tex)          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/l3pdfmode.def))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xparse/xparse.sty)     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/l3keys2e/l3keys2e.sty) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgf.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common.te |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| x                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common-li |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| sts.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-latex.def |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/ms/everyshi.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.code.tex)) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeysfiltered.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgf.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-pdftex.d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ef                                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-common-p |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| df.def)))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsyssoftpath. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsysprotocol. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/xcolor/xcolor.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/color.cfg))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathcalc.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathutil.code.tex)  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathparser.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex                                                                             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.basic |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.trigo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nometric.code.tex)                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.rando |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m.code.tex)                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.compa |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| rison.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.base. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.round |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.misc. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.integ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| erarithmetics.code.tex)))                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfloat.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepoints.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathconst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ruct.code.tex)                                                                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathusage |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorescopes.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoregraphicst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ate.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretransform |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ations.code.tex)                                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorequick.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreobjects.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex)                                                                        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathproce |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ssing.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorearrows.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreshade.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreimage.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreexternal. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorelayers.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretranspare |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ncy.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepatterns. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleshapes.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleplot.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex)                                                                            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -0-65.sty)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -1-18.sty))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgffor.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.sty         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/math/pgfmath.sty       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgffor.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex)))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/tikz.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryplothan |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| dlers.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmodulematrix.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/librarie |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/tikzlibrarytopaths.code.tex)))                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xfrac/xfrac.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xtemplate/xtemplate.st |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| y))                                                                             | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/units/nicefrac.sty)        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/koma-script/scrlfile.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | scrlfile,                                                                | 2016/05/10                                          | v3.20                              | KOMA-Script                       | package    | (loading                                | files)      |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Copyright                                                                       | (C)                                                                      | Markus                                              | Kohm                               |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryarrows. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| meta.code.tex))                                                                 | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/lineno/lineno.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/setspace/setspace.sty)     |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `math                                               | shift'                             | on                                | input      | line                                    | 43          |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `superscript'                                       | on                                 | input                             | line       | 43                                      |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.aux)                                                              | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1cmr.fd             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/context/base/mkii/supp-pdf.mkii  |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [Loading                                                                        | MPS                                                                      | to                                                  | PDF                                | converter                         | (version   | 2006.09.02).]                           |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/epstopdf-base.sty |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grfext.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/epstopdf-sys.cfg))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/nameref.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/gettitlestring.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.out)                                                              | (./paper_diff.out)                                                       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | driver:                                                                  | auto-detecting                                      |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | detected                                                                 | driver:                                             | pdftex                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ABD:                                                                            | EveryShipout                                                             | initializing                                        | macros                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmss.fd)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsa.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsb.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Underfull                                                                       | \hbox                                                                    | (badness                                            | 10000)                             | in                                | paragraph  | at                                      | lines       | 72--74       |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmtt.fd)                   | [1{/usr/local/tex                                                        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| live/2016/texmf-var/fonts/map/pdftex/updmap/pdftex.map}]                        | [2]                                                                      | [3]                                                 | [4]                                | [5]                               |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <figs/soltice_shadow_building.png,                                              | id=136,                                                                  | 339.2675pt                                          | x                                  | 771.88374pt>                      |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | figs/soltice_shadow_building.png>                                        | [6]                                                 | [7                                 | <./figs/soltice_shadow_building.p |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ng>]                                                                            | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png,                                        | id=155,                                             | 1304.875pt                         | x                                 | 602.25pt>  |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>                                         | [8                                                  | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>] |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png,                                  | id=167,                                                                  | 803.0pt                                             | x                                  | 803.0pt>                          |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png>                            | [9]                                                 | [10                                | <../figs/mediantree_              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| netC_effect_spatial_l.png>]                                                     | [11]                                                                     | [12]                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png,                            | id=209,                                                                  | 1505.625pt                                          | x                                  | 1003                              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 75pt>                                                                           | <use                                                                     | ../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png> | [13]                               | [14                               | <../fig    |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png>]                                  | [15]                                                                     | [16]                                                | [17]                               | [18]                              | [19]       |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [20]                                                                            | [21]                                                                     | [22]                                                | (./paper_diff.bbl                  | [23]                              | [24]       | [25]                                    | [26])       | [27]         | (./paper_diff.aux) |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| LaTeX                                                                           | Warning:                                                                 | Label(s)                                            | may                                | have                              | changed.   | Rerun                                   | to          | get          | cross-references   | right.            |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (see                                                                            | the                                                                      | transcript                                          | file                               | for                               | additional | information){/usr/local/texlive/2016/te |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| xmf-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-t1.enc}{/usr/local/texlive/2016/texm |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| f-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-ts1.enc}</usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dis |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| t/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nts/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0600.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/font |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| type1/public/cm-super/sfrm1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ty |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| pe1/public/cm-super/sfrm1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 1/public/cm-super/sfrm1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| public/cm-super/sfrm2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/pu |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| blic/cm-super/sfss0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/publ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ic/cm-super/sfss1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| /cm-super/sfss1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m-super/sfss2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm- |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| super/sfti1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-su |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| per/sftt1095.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-supe |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| r/sftt1200.pfb>                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Output                                                                          | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.pdf                     | (27                               | pages,     | 1543819                                 | bytes).     |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Transcript                                                                      | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.log.                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| This                                                                            | is                                                                       | BibTeX,                                             | Version                            | 0.99d                             | (TeX       | Live                                    | 2016)       |              |                    |                   |                            |
| The                                                                             | top-level                                                                | auxiliary                                           | file:                              | paper_diff.aux                    |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| The                                                                             | style                                                                    | file:                                               | apa.bst                            |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Database                                                                        | file                                                                     | #1:                                                 | ../../notes/references.bib         |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| I                                                                               | was                                                                      | expecting                                           | a                                  | `,'                               | or         | a                                       | `}'---line  | 3666         | of                 | file              | ../../notes/references.bib |
| :                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| :                                                                               | url={https://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/jrnl/1991/nrs_1991_heisler_001.pdf}  |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (Error                                                                          | may                                                                      | have                                                | been                               | on                                | previous   | line)                                   |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| I'm                                                                             | skipping                                                                 | whatever                                            | remains                            | of                                | this       | entry                                   |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--empty                                                                  | booktitle                                                                | in                                                  | heisler_1990                       |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--can't                                                                  | use                                                                      | both                                                | volume                             | and                               | number     | fields                                  | in          | heisler_1990 |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--empty                                                                  | booktitle                                                                | in                                                  | huang_e_1990                       |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--can't                                                                  | use                                                                      | both                                                | volume                             | and                               | number     | fields                                  | in          | huang_e_1990 |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--empty                                                                  | journal                                                                  | in                                                  | nowak_e_02                         |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--empty                                                                  | journal                                                                  | in                                                  | epa_a2_2017                        |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--there's                                                                | a                                                                        | number                                              | but                                | no                                | volume     | in                                      | epa_a2_2017 |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Warning--empty                                                                  | journal                                                                  | in                                                  | USEIA_2009                         |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (There                                                                          | was                                                                      | 1                                                   | error                              | message)                          |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| This                                                                            | is                                                                       | pdfTeX,                                             | Version                            | 3.14159265-2.6-1.40.17            | (TeX       | Live                                    | 2016)       | (preloaded   | format=pdflatex)   |                   |                            |
| restricted                                                                      | \write18                                                                 | enabled.                                            |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| entering                                                                        | extended                                                                 | mode                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.tex                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| LaTeX2e                                                                         | <2016/03/31>                                                             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Babel                                                                           | <3.9r>                                                                   | and                                                 | hyphenation                        | patterns                          | for        | 83                                      | language(s) | loaded.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/article.cls                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Document                                                                        | Class:                                                                   | article                                             | 2014/09/29                         | v1.4h                             | Standard   | LaTeX                                   | document    | class        |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/size12.clo))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/inputenc.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/utf8.def                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.dfu)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ot1enc.dfu)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/omsenc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/fontenc.sty                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.def))                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphicx.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/keyval.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphics.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/trig.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/graphics.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pdftex-def/pdftex.def             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/infwarerr.sty)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ltxcmds.sty))))        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grffile.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifpdf.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ifxetex/ifxetex.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/kvoptions.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/kvsetkeys.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/etexcmds.sty           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifluatex.sty))))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/pdftexcmds.sty))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/tools/longtable.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/wrapfig/wrapfig.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/rotating/rotating.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ifthen.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ulem/ulem.sty)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsmath.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| For                                                                             | additional                                                               | information                                         | on                                 | amsmath,                          | use        | the                                     | `?'         | option.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amstext.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsgen.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsbsy.sty)               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsopn.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/textcomp.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.def                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amssymb.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amsfonts.sty))           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/capt-of/capt-of.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hyperref.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-hyperref.sty    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-generic.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/auxhook.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/pd1enc.def)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/hyperref.cfg)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/url/url.sty))                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Message:                                            | Driver                             | (autodetected):                   | hpdftex.   |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hpdftex.def              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/rerunfilecheck.sty))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/geometry/geometry.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/natbib/natbib.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/chemformula/chemformula.sty       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3.sty                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3-code.tex)          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/l3pdfmode.def))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xparse/xparse.sty)     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/l3keys2e/l3keys2e.sty) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgf.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common.te |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| x                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common-li |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| sts.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-latex.def |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/ms/everyshi.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.code.tex)) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeysfiltered.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgf.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-pdftex.d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ef                                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-common-p |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| df.def)))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsyssoftpath. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsysprotocol. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/xcolor/xcolor.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/color.cfg))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathcalc.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathutil.code.tex)  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathparser.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex                                                                             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.basic |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.trigo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nometric.code.tex)                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.rando |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m.code.tex)                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.compa |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| rison.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.base. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.round |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.misc. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.integ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| erarithmetics.code.tex)))                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfloat.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepoints.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathconst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ruct.code.tex)                                                                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathusage |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorescopes.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoregraphicst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ate.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretransform |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ations.code.tex)                                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorequick.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreobjects.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex)                                                                        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathproce |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ssing.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorearrows.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreshade.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreimage.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreexternal. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorelayers.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretranspare |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ncy.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepatterns. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleshapes.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleplot.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex)                                                                            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -0-65.sty)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -1-18.sty))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgffor.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.sty         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/math/pgfmath.sty       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgffor.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex)))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/tikz.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryplothan |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| dlers.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmodulematrix.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/librarie |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/tikzlibrarytopaths.code.tex)))                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xfrac/xfrac.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xtemplate/xtemplate.st |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| y))                                                                             | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/units/nicefrac.sty)        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/koma-script/scrlfile.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | scrlfile,                                                                | 2016/05/10                                          | v3.20                              | KOMA-Script                       | package    | (loading                                | files)      |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Copyright                                                                       | (C)                                                                      | Markus                                              | Kohm                               |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryarrows. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| meta.code.tex))                                                                 | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/lineno/lineno.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/setspace/setspace.sty)     |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `math                                               | shift'                             | on                                | input      | line                                    | 43          |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `superscript'                                       | on                                 | input                             | line       | 43                                      |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.aux)                                                              | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1cmr.fd             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/context/base/mkii/supp-pdf.mkii  |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [Loading                                                                        | MPS                                                                      | to                                                  | PDF                                | converter                         | (version   | 2006.09.02).]                           |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/epstopdf-base.sty |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grfext.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/epstopdf-sys.cfg))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/nameref.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/gettitlestring.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.out)                                                              | (./paper_diff.out)                                                       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | driver:                                                                  | auto-detecting                                      |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | detected                                                                 | driver:                                             | pdftex                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ABD:                                                                            | EveryShipout                                                             | initializing                                        | macros                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmss.fd)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsa.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsb.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Underfull                                                                       | \hbox                                                                    | (badness                                            | 10000)                             | in                                | paragraph  | at                                      | lines       | 72--74       |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmtt.fd)                   | [1{/usr/local/tex                                                        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| live/2016/texmf-var/fonts/map/pdftex/updmap/pdftex.map}]                        | [2]                                                                      | [3]                                                 | [4]                                | [5]                               |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <figs/soltice_shadow_building.png,                                              | id=136,                                                                  | 339.2675pt                                          | x                                  | 771.88374pt>                      |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | figs/soltice_shadow_building.png>                                        | [6]                                                 | [7                                 | <./figs/soltice_shadow_building.p |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ng>]                                                                            | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png,                                        | id=155,                                             | 1304.875pt                         | x                                 | 602.25pt>  |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>                                         | [8                                                  | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>] |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png,                                  | id=167,                                                                  | 803.0pt                                             | x                                  | 803.0pt>                          |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png>                            | [9]                                                 | [10                                | <../figs/mediantree_              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| netC_effect_spatial_l.png>]                                                     | [11]                                                                     | [12]                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png,                            | id=209,                                                                  | 1505.625pt                                          | x                                  | 1003                              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 75pt>                                                                           | <use                                                                     | ../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png> | [13]                               | [14                               | <../fig    |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png>]                                  | [15]                                                                     | [16]                                                | [17]                               | [18]                              | [19]       |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [20]                                                                            | [21]                                                                     | [22]                                                | (./paper_diff.bbl                  | [23]                              | [24]       | [25]                                    | [26])       | [27]         | (./paper_diff.aux) | )                 |                            |
| (see                                                                            | the                                                                      | transcript                                          | file                               | for                               | additional | information){/usr/local/texlive/2016/te |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| xmf-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-t1.enc}{/usr/local/texlive/2016/texm |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| f-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-ts1.enc}</usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dis |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| t/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nts/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0600.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/font |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| type1/public/cm-super/sfrm1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ty |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| pe1/public/cm-super/sfrm1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 1/public/cm-super/sfrm1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| public/cm-super/sfrm2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/pu |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| blic/cm-super/sfss0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/publ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ic/cm-super/sfss1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| /cm-super/sfss1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m-super/sfss2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm- |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| super/sfti1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-su |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| per/sftt1095.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-supe |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| r/sftt1200.pfb>                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Output                                                                          | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.pdf                     | (27                               | pages,     | 1543819                                 | bytes).     |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Transcript                                                                      | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.log.                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| This                                                                            | is                                                                       | pdfTeX,                                             | Version                            | 3.14159265-2.6-1.40.17            | (TeX       | Live                                    | 2016)       | (preloaded   | format=pdflatex)   |                   |                            |
| restricted                                                                      | \write18                                                                 | enabled.                                            |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| entering                                                                        | extended                                                                 | mode                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.tex                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| LaTeX2e                                                                         | <2016/03/31>                                                             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Babel                                                                           | <3.9r>                                                                   | and                                                 | hyphenation                        | patterns                          | for        | 83                                      | language(s) | loaded.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/article.cls                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Document                                                                        | Class:                                                                   | article                                             | 2014/09/29                         | v1.4h                             | Standard   | LaTeX                                   | document    | class        |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/size12.clo))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/inputenc.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/utf8.def                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.dfu)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ot1enc.dfu)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/omsenc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/fontenc.sty                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1enc.def))                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphicx.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/keyval.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/graphics.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics/trig.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/graphics.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pdftex-def/pdftex.def             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/infwarerr.sty)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ltxcmds.sty))))        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grffile.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifpdf.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ifxetex/ifxetex.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/kvoptions.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/kvsetkeys.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/etexcmds.sty           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/ifluatex.sty))))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/pdftexcmds.sty))       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/tools/longtable.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/wrapfig/wrapfig.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/rotating/rotating.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ifthen.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/ulem/ulem.sty)                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsmath.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| For                                                                             | additional                                                               | information                                         | on                                 | amsmath,                          | use        | the                                     | `?'         | option.      |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amstext.sty               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsgen.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsbsy.sty)               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsmath/amsopn.sty))              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/textcomp.sty                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.def                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1enc.dfu)))                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amssymb.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/amsfonts.sty))           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/capt-of/capt-of.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hyperref.sty             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-hyperref.sty    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/hobsub-generic.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/auxhook.sty)             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/pd1enc.def)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/hyperref.cfg)         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/url/url.sty))                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Message:                                            | Driver                             | (autodetected):                   | hpdftex.   |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/hpdftex.def              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/rerunfilecheck.sty))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/geometry/geometry.sty)            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/natbib/natbib.sty)                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/chemformula/chemformula.sty       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3.sty                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/expl3-code.tex)          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3kernel/l3pdfmode.def))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xparse/xparse.sty)     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/l3keys2e/l3keys2e.sty) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgf.sty            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common.te |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| x                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-common-li |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| sts.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfutil-latex.def |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/ms/everyshi.sty))                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfrcs.code.tex)) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeysfiltered.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgf.cfg)        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-pdftex.d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ef                                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsys-common-p |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| df.def)))                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsyssoftpath. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/systemlayer/pgfsysprotocol. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/xcolor/xcolor.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/graphics-cfg/color.cfg))          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcore.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathcalc.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathutil.code.tex)  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathparser.code.tex |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex                                                                             |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.basic |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.trigo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nometric.code.tex)                                                              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.rando |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m.code.tex)                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.compa |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| rison.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.base. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.round |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.misc. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)                                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfunctions.integ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| erarithmetics.code.tex)))                                                       |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmathfloat.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepoints.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathconst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ruct.code.tex)                                                                  |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathusage |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| .code.tex)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorescopes.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoregraphicst |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ate.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretransform |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ations.code.tex)                                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorequick.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreobjects.c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ode.tex)                                                                        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepathproce |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ssing.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorearrows.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreshade.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreimage.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoreexternal. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex))                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorelayers.co |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| de.tex)                                                                         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcoretranspare |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ncy.code.tex)                                                                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/basiclayer/pgfcorepatterns. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| code.tex)))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleshapes.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmoduleplot.code. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| tex)                                                                            |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -0-65.sty)                                                                      |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/compatibility/pgfcomp-version |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -1-18.sty))                                                                     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgffor.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.sty         |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgfkeys.code.tex) |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/pgf/math/pgfmath.sty       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex))     |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/utilities/pgffor.code.tex   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/math/pgfmath.code.tex)))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/tikz.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex                                                                           |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryplothan |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| dlers.code.tex)                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/modules/pgfmodulematrix.cod |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| e.tex)                                                                          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/frontendlayer/tikz/librarie |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/tikzlibrarytopaths.code.tex)))                                                |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xfrac/xfrac.sty        |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/l3packages/xtemplate/xtemplate.st |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| y))                                                                             | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/units/nicefrac.sty)        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/koma-script/scrlfile.sty          |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | scrlfile,                                                                | 2016/05/10                                          | v3.20                              | KOMA-Script                       | package    | (loading                                | files)      |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Copyright                                                                       | (C)                                                                      | Markus                                              | Kohm                               |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/pgf/libraries/pgflibraryarrows. |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| meta.code.tex))                                                                 | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/lineno/lineno.sty          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/setspace/setspace.sty)     |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `math                                               | shift'                             | on                                | input      | line                                    | 43          |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Package                                                                         | hyperref                                                                 | Warning:                                            | Token                              | not                               | allowed    | in                                      | a           | PDF          | string             | (PDFDocEncoding): |                            |
| (hyperref)                                                                      | removing                                                                 | `superscript'                                       | on                                 | input                             | line       | 43                                      |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.aux)                                                              | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/ts1cmr.fd             |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/context/base/mkii/supp-pdf.mkii  |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [Loading                                                                        | MPS                                                                      | to                                                  | PDF                                | converter                         | (version   | 2006.09.02).]                           |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| )                                                                               | (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/epstopdf-base.sty |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/oberdiek/grfext.sty)              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/latexconfig/epstopdf-sys.cfg))    |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/hyperref/nameref.sty              |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/generic/oberdiek/gettitlestring.sty))   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (./paper_diff.out)                                                              | (./paper_diff.out)                                                       |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | driver:                                                                  | auto-detecting                                      |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| *geometry*                                                                      | detected                                                                 | driver:                                             | pdftex                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ABD:                                                                            | EveryShipout                                                             | initializing                                        | macros                             |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmss.fd)                   |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsa.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/amsfonts/umsb.fd)                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Underfull                                                                       | \hbox                                                                    | (badness                                            | 10000)                             | in                                | paragraph  | at                                      | lines       | 72--74       |                    |                   |                            |
|                                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| (/usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/tex/latex/base/t1cmtt.fd)                   | [1{/usr/local/tex                                                        |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| live/2016/texmf-var/fonts/map/pdftex/updmap/pdftex.map}]                        | [2]                                                                      | [3]                                                 | [4]                                | [5]                               |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <figs/soltice_shadow_building.png,                                              | id=136,                                                                  | 339.2675pt                                          | x                                  | 771.88374pt>                      |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | figs/soltice_shadow_building.png>                                        | [6]                                                 | [7                                 | <./figs/soltice_shadow_building.p |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ng>]                                                                            | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png,                                        | id=155,                                             | 1304.875pt                         | x                                 | 602.25pt>  |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>                                         | [8                                                  | <../figs/carbon_Percent_coef.png>] |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png,                                  | id=167,                                                                  | 803.0pt                                             | x                                  | 803.0pt>                          |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <use                                                                            | ../figs/mediantree_netC_effect_spatial_l.png>                            | [9]                                                 | [10                                | <../figs/mediantree_              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| netC_effect_spatial_l.png>]                                                     | [11]                                                                     | [12]                                                |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| <../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png,                            | id=209,                                                                  | 1505.625pt                                          | x                                  | 1003                              |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 75pt>                                                                           | <use                                                                     | ../figs/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png> | [13]                               | [14                               | <../fig    |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/akbari_konopacki_2005_netkgC_wCities_3.png>]                                  | [15]                                                                     | [16]                                                | [17]                               | [18]                              | [19]       |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| [20]                                                                            | [21]                                                                     | [22]                                                | (./paper_diff.bbl                  | [23]                              | [24]       | [25]                                    | [26])       | [27]         | (./paper_diff.aux) | )                 |                            |
| (see                                                                            | the                                                                      | transcript                                          | file                               | for                               | additional | information){/usr/local/texlive/2016/te |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| xmf-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-t1.enc}{/usr/local/texlive/2016/texm |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| f-dist/fonts/enc/dvips/cm-super/cm-super-ts1.enc}</usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| -dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-d |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ist/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dis |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| t/fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| fonts/type1/public/cm-super/sfbx1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fo |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| nts/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0600.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/font |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| s/type1/public/cm-super/sfrm0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| type1/public/cm-super/sfrm1000.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/ty |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| pe1/public/cm-super/sfrm1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| 1/public/cm-super/sfrm1440.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| public/cm-super/sfrm2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/pu |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| blic/cm-super/sfss0800.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/publ |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| ic/cm-super/sfss1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| /cm-super/sfss1728.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/c |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| m-super/sfss2074.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm- |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| super/sfti1200.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-su |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| per/sftt1095.pfb></usr/local/texlive/2016/texmf-dist/fonts/type1/public/cm-supe |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| r/sftt1200.pfb>                                                                 |                                                                          |                                                     |                                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Output                                                                          | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.pdf                     | (27                               | pages,     | 1543819                                 | bytes).     |              |                    |                   |                            |
| Transcript                                                                      | written                                                                  | on                                                  | paper_diff.log.                    |                                   |            |                                         |             |              |                    |                   |                            |

*  COMMENT Bibtex entries

#+BEGIN_SRC bibtex :tangle references.bib
@article{young_2011,
  author =       {Robert F. Young},
  title =        {Planting the Living City},
  journal =      {Journal of the American Planning Association},
  volume =       77,
  number =       4,
  pages =        {368-381},
  year =         2011,
  doi =          {10.1080/01944363.2011.616996},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1080/01944363.2011.616996},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Mon Jul 9 11:17:32 2018},
}






@article{heisler_86,
  author =       {Gordon M. Heisler},
  title =        {Effects of Individual Trees on the Solar Radiation
                  Climate of Small Buildings},
  journal =      {Urban Ecology},
  volume =       9,
  number =       {3-4},
  pages =        {337-359},
  year =         1986,
  doi =          {10.1016/0304-4009(86)90008-2},
  url =          {http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0304-4009(86)90008-2},
  date_added =   {Fri Apr 1 13:36:28 2016},
}





@inproceedings{huang_e_1990,
  title={The wind-shielding and shading effects of trees on residential heating and cooling requirements},
  author={Huang, Y Joe and Akbari, Hashem and Taha, Heider},
  year={1990},
  organization = {Proceedings of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air conditioning Engineers},
  volume = 96,
  number = 1,
  url ={https://pubarchive.lbl.gov/islandora/object/ir%3A90282},
  date_added = {Tue Jun 19 16:44:29 2018},
}





@article{ziter_e_2019,
  author =       {Carly D. Ziter and Eric J. Pedersen and Christopher
                  J. Kucharik and Monica G. Turner},
  title =        {Scale-Dependent Interactions Between Tree Canopy
                  Cover and Impervious Surfaces Reduce Daytime Urban
                  Heat During Summer},
  journal =      {Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences},
  volume =       116,
  number =       15,
  pages =        {7575-7580},
  year =         2019,
  doi =          {10.1073/pnas.1817561116},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1817561116},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Wed Jun 19 16:31:43 2019},
}






@article{nowak_etal_2010,
  title={Assessing urban forest effects and values, Chicago's urban forest},
  author={Nowak, David J and Robert III, E and Crane, Daniel E and Stevens, Jack C and Fisher, Cherie Leblanc},
  year={2010},
  journal = {Northern Research Station Resource Bull.},
  volume = {NRS-37},
  url = {https://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/rb/rb_nrs37.pdf}
}





@article{weissert_etal_2014,
  author =       {L.F. Weissert and J.A. Salmond and L. Schwendenmann},
  title =        {A Review of the Current Progress in Quantifying the
                  Potential of Urban Forests To Mitigate Urban Co2
                  Emissions},
  journal =      {Urban Climate},
  volume =       8,
  number =       {nil},
  pages =        {100-125},
  year =         2014,
  doi =          {10.1016/j.uclim.2014.01.002},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.uclim.2014.01.002},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Mar 7 09:11:53 2017},
}





@article{pataki_etal_2011,
  author =       {Diane E Pataki and Margaret M Carreiro and Jennifer
                  Cherrier and Nancy E Grulke and Viniece Jennings and
                  Stephanie Pincetl and Richard V Pouyat and Thomas H
                  Whitlow and Wayne C Zipperer},
  title =        {Coupling Biogeochemical Cycles in Urban
                  Environments: Ecosystem Services, Green Solutions,
                  and Misconceptions},
  journal =      {Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment},
  volume =       9,
  number =       1,
  pages =        {27-36},
  year =         2011,
  doi =          {10.1890/090220},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1890/090220},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Mar 7 09:30:06 2017},
}





@article{akbari_2002,
  author =       {H. Akbari},
  title =        {Shade Trees Reduce Building Energy Use and \ch{CO_2}
                  Emissions From Power Plants},
  journal =      {Environmental Pollution},
  volume =       116,
  number =       {nil},
  pages =        {S119-S126},
  year =         2002,
  doi =          {10.1016/s0269-7491(01)00264-0},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/s0269-7491(01)00264-0},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Thu Mar 9 09:29:23 2017},
}





@article{mcpherson_simpson_99,
  title={Carbon dioxide reduction through urban forestry},
  author={McPherson, E Gregory and Simpson, James R},
  journal={Gen. Tech. Rep. PSW-171, USDA For. Serv., Pacific Southwest Research Station, Albany, CA},
  year={1999}
}





@article{nowak_e_2017,
  title={Residential building energy conservation and avoided power plant emissions by urban and community trees in the United States},
  author={Nowak, David J and Appleton, Nathaniel and Ellis, Alexis and Greenfield, Eric},
  journal={Urban Forestry \& Urban Greening},
  volume={21},
  pages={158--165},
  year={2017},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}





@article{pataki_e_06,
  author =       {D. E. Pataki and R. J. Alig and A. S. Fung and
                  N. E. Golubiewski and C. A. Kennedy and
                  E. G. McPherson and D. J. Nowak and R. V. Pouyat and
                  P. Romero Lankao},
  title =        {Urban Ecosystems and the North American Carbon
                  Cycle},
  journal =      {Global Change Biology},
  volume =       12,
  number =       11,
  pages =        {2092-2102},
  year =         2006,
  doi =          {10.1111/j.1365-2486.2006.01242.x},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2486.2006.01242.x},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Mar 7 09:56:41 2017},
}





@article{akbari_e_1997,
  title={Peak power and cooling energy savings of shade trees},
  author={Akbari, Hashem and Kurn, Dan M and Bretz, Sarah E and Hanford, James W},
  journal={Energy and buildings},
  volume={25},
  number={2},
  pages={139--148},
  year={1997},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}





@article{donovan_Butry_2009,
  author =       {Geoffrey H. Donovan and David T. Butry},
  title =        {The Value of Shade: Estimating the Effect of Urban
                  Trees on Summertime Electricity Use},
  journal =      {Energy and Buildings},
  volume =       41,
  number =       6,
  pages =        {662-668},
  year =         2009,
  doi =          {10.1016/j.enbuild.2009.01.002},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2009.01.002},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Thu Mar 9 11:15:05 2017},
}





@article{dewalle_e_1983,
author = {DeWalle, David R. and Heisler, Gordon M. and Jacobs, Robert E.},
title = {Forest Home Sites Influence Heating and Cooling Energy},
journal = {Journal of Forestry},
volume = {81},
number = {2},
pages = {84-88},
year = {1983},
doi = {10.1093/jof/81.2.84},
URL = {http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/jof/81.2.84},
eprint = {/oup/backfile/content_public/journal/jof/81/2/10.1093_jof_81.2.84/2/jof0084.pdf}
}





@article{parker_1983,
  title={Landscaping to reduce the energy used in cooling buildings},
  author={Parker, John H},
  journal={Journal of Forestry},
  volume={81},
  number={2},
  pages={82--105},
  year={1983},
  publisher={Society of American Foresters}
}





@article{mcpherson_e_1989,
  author =       {E.Gregory McPherson and James R. Simpson and
                  Margaret Livingston},
  title =        {Effects of Three Landscape Treatments on Residential
                  Energy and Water Use in Tucson, Arizona},
  journal =      {Energy and Buildings},
  volume =       13,
  number =       2,
  pages =        {127-138},
  year =         1989,
  doi =          {10.1016/0378-7788(89)90004-2},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/0378-7788(89)90004-2},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Thu Jun 21 15:29:56 2018},
}






@article{akbari_konopacki_2005,
  author =       {H. Akbari and S. Konopacki},
  title =        {Calculating Energy-Saving Potentials of Heat-Island
                  Reduction Strategies},
  journal =      {Energy Policy},
  volume =       33,
  number =       6,
  pages =        {721-756},
  year =         2005,
  doi =          {10.1016/j.enpol.2003.10.001},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2003.10.001},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Thu Jun 21 12:57:56 2018},
}






@inproceedings{heisler_1990,
  title={Mean wind speed below building height in residential neighborhoods with different tree densities},
  author={Heisler, Gordon M},
  year={1990},
  organization = {Proceedings of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air conditioning Engineers},
  volume = 96,
  number = 1,
  url = {https://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/jrnl/1990/nrs_1990_heisler_001.pdf},
}






@article{huang_e_1987,
  author =       {Y. J. Huang and H. Akbari and H. Taha and
                  A. H. Rosenfeld},
  title =        {The Potential of Vegetation in Reducing Summer
                  Cooling Loads in Residential Buildings},
  journal =      {Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology},
  volume =       26,
  number =       9,
  pages =        {1103-1116},
  year =         1987,
  doi =          {10.1175/1520-0450(1987)026$<$1103:tpovir>2.0.co;2},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1175/1520-0450(1987)026$<$1103:tpovir>2.0.co;2},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Jun 19 15:17:26 2018},
}






@article{simpson_2002,
  author =       {James R Simpson},
  title =        {Improved Estimates of Tree-Shade Effects on
                  Residential Energy Use},
  journal =      {Energy and Buildings},
  volume =       34,
  number =       10,
  pages =        {1067-1076},
  year =         2002,
  doi =          {10.1016/s0378-7788(02)00028-2},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/s0378-7788(02)00028-2},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Mar 7 09:05:26 2017},
}





@article{USEIA_2009,
author = {U.S. Department of Energy, Energy Information Administration},
title = {Wisconsin Household Energy Report},
year = {2009},
url = {https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/reports/2009/state_briefs/pdf/wi.pdf},
}





@article{thayer_maeda_1985,
  title={Measuring street tree impact on solar performance: a five-climate computer modeling study},
  author={Thayer Jr, Robert L and Maeda, Bruce T},
  journal={Journal of arboriculture (USA)},
  year={1985}
}






@article{mcpherson_e_1988,
  title={Impacts of vegetation on residential heating and cooling},
  author={McPherson, E Gregory and Herrington, Lee P and Heisler, Gordon M},
  journal={Energy and Buildings},
  volume={12},
  number={1},
  pages={41--51},
  year={1988},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}





@article{simpson_mcpherson_1998,
  author =       {J.R. Simpson and E.G. McPherson},
  title =        {Simulation of Tree Shade Impacts on Residential
                  Energy Use for Space Conditioning in Sacramento},
  journal =      {Atmospheric Environment},
  volume =       32,
  number =       1,
  pages =        {69-74},
  year =         1998,
  doi =          {10.1016/s1352-2310(97)00181-7},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/s1352-2310(97)00181-7},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Jun 19 11:02:41 2018},
}






@article{akbari_taha_1992,
title = "The impact of trees and white surfaces on residential heating and cooling energy use in four Canadian cities",
journal = "Energy",
volume = "17",
number = "2",
pages = "141 - 149",
year = "1992",
issn = "0360-5442",
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/0360-5442(92)90063-6",
url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0360544292900636",
author = "Hashem Akbari and Haider Taha"
}





@article{jo_mcpherson_2001,
  author =       {H.-K. Jo and E.G. McPherson},
  title =        {Indirect Carbon Reduction By Residential Vegetation
                  and Planting Strategies in Chicago, Usa},
  journal =      {Journal of Environmental Management},
  volume =       61,
  number =       2,
  pages =        {165-177},
  year =         2001,
  doi =          {10.1006/jema.2000.0393},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1006/jema.2000.0393},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Jun 19 13:08:07 2018},
}






@article{nowak_e_02,
  title={Effects of urban tree management and species selection on atmospheric carbon dioxide},
  author={Nowak, David J and Stevens, Jack C and Sisinni, Susan M and Luley, Christopher J},
  year={2002}
}





@article{mcpherson_kendall_2014,
  author =       {E. Gregory McPherson and Alissa Kendall},
  title =        {A Life Cycle Carbon Dioxide Inventory of the Million
                  Trees Los Angeles Program},
  journal =      {The International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment},
  volume =       19,
  number =       9,
  pages =        {1653-1665},
  year =         2014,
  doi =          {10.1007/s11367-014-0772-8},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1007/s11367-014-0772-8},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Mon Jul 9 11:10:04 2018},
}






@article{roy_etal_2012,
  author =       {Sudipto Roy and Jason Byrne and Catherine Pickering},
  title =        {A Systematic Quantitative Review of Urban Tree
                  Benefits, Costs, and Assessment Methods Across
                  Cities in Different Climatic Zones},
  journal =      {Urban Forestry \& Urban Greening},
  volume =       11,
  number =       4,
  pages =        {351-363},
  year =         2012,
  doi =          {10.1016/j.ufug.2012.06.006},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ufug.2012.06.006},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Tue Mar 7 09:33:16 2017},
}





@article{mcpherson_e_05,
  title={Municipal forest benefits and costs in five US cities},
  author={McPherson, Greg and Simpson, James R and Peper, Paula J and Maco, Scott E and Xiao, Qingfu},
  journal={Journal of Forestry},
  volume={103},
  number={8},
  pages={411--416},
  year={2005},
  publisher={Society of American Foresters}
}





@misc{eGRID,
  author        = "{Emissions \& Generation Resource Integrated Database}",
  organization  = "United States Environmental Protection Agency",
  year          = 2016,
  url           = "https://www.epa.gov/energy/emissions-generation-resource-integrated-database-egrid-questions-and-answers",
  note          = "Accessed Jul. 24, 2018",
}





@article{epa_a2_2017,
  author = {{United State Environmental Protection Agency}},
  title = {Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: ANNEX 2 Methodology and Data for Estimating \ch{CO_2} Emissions from Fossil Fuel Combustion},
  year = {2017},
  url = {https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2017-02/documents/2017_annex_2.pdf},
  number = {430-P-17-001},
}





@article{erker_e_2018,
  author =       {Tedward Erker and Philip A. Townsend and Lei Wang and Laura Lorentz and Andrew Stoltman},
  title =        {A Statewide Urban Tree Canopy Mapping Method},
  journal =      {Remote Sensing of Environment (in review)},
  year =         2018,
}





@Article{bates_e_2015,
  author =       {Douglas Bates and Martin M{\"a}chler and Ben Bolker
                  and Steve Walker},
  title =        {Fitting Linear Mixed-Effects Models Using {lme4}},
  journal =      {Journal of Statistical Software},
  volume =       67,
  number =       1,
  pages =        {1--48},
  year =         2015,
  doi =          {10.18637/jss.v067.i01},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v067.i01},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Wed Jul 25 11:29:52 2018},
}





@book{gelman_hill_2007,
  title={Data Analysis Using Regression and Multilevel/Hierarchical Models},
  author={Gelman, A. and Hill, J.},
  isbn={9780521686891},
  lccn={2006040566},
  series={Analytical Methods for Social Research},
  url={https://books.google.com/books?id=lV3DIdV0F9AC},
  year={2007},
  publisher={Cambridge University Press}
}





@article{nowak_crane_2002,
  author =       {David J. Nowak and Daniel E. Crane},
  title =        {Carbon Storage and Sequestration By Urban Trees in
                  the USA},
  journal =      {Environmental Pollution},
  volume =       116,
  number =       3,
  pages =        {381-389},
  year =         2002,
  doi =          {10.1016/s0269-7491(01)00214-7},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1016/s0269-7491(01)00214-7},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Mon May 1 07:30:20 2017},
}





@misc{mcpherson_e_2016,
  title={Urban tree database and allometric equations},
  author={McPherson, E Gregory and van Doorn, Natalie S and Peper, Paula J},
  year=2016
}





@misc{tract_centroids,
   author        = "{U.S. Census Tract Centroids}",
  organization  = "GIS Lab at the Newman Library of Baruch College, CUNY",
  year          = 2010,
  url           = "https://www.baruch.cuny.edu/confluence/display/geoportal/US+Census+Population+Centroids",
  note          = "Accessed Jul. 24, 2018",
}





@article{arguez_e_2012,
  author =       {Anthony Arguez and Imke Durre and Scott Applequist
                  and Russell S. Vose and Michael F. Squires and
                  Xungang Yin and Richard R. Heim and Timothy W. Owen},
  title =        {NOAA's 1981-2010 U.S. Climate Normals: An Overview},
  journal =      {Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society},
  volume =       93,
  number =       11,
  pages =        {1687-1697},
  year =         2012,
  doi =          {10.1175/bams-d-11-00197.1},
  url =          {https://doi.org/10.1175/bams-d-11-00197.1},
  DATE_ADDED =   {Wed Jul 25 12:49:02 2018},
}

#+END_SRC
